When last we left off, we brought in
this imagetools plugin, which is,
honestly in this repo that was just
kind of our little playground.
The first time we've touched any amount
of Vite configuration whatsoever.
And what imagetools does is it gives
a bunch of additional abilities when we
import a URL or an image to process it and
actually get other information about it.
If you use Next or something like that,
a lot of times, they want the width and
the height of the image, maybe you
don't have it, so on and so forth.
But theoretically,
that is knowable information but
kind of depends on a bunch of factors.
So the imagetools is like
the first plugin, and
it looks very similar to how we
brought in React before, right?
And it will just kind of add a little
bit of extra functionality to
our ability to use these imports.
So when you go back,
instead of the favicon,
we're gonna go back to my self portrait,
steve-after-a-workshop.png.
And that might not be the after workshop.
It's .jpg, that's the issue.
So .jpg, and good, we're ready to go.
And as a reminder,
the picture is gigantic.
What imagetool gives us is very simply
the ability to do something like h=400.
Right, and
now it will resize the image for us.
This is not, just it crushed down, right?
This is literally the image was resized
on the fly by our buildtools, right?
And we can verify this by doing,
we'll do npm run build.
And you can see before,
the image was 5 kilobytes, or
5 megabytes, 5,000 kilobytes,
and now it is 31, right?
So we're able to kind of resize, and that
is now the one that is produced is a JPEG.
And it is much smaller in this case,
and we didn't have to go in there and
resize it ourselves.
We can add other options too, right?
We could say, and
I think it's format=webp.
And then let's do another build here.
And now, you can see that it has actually
also changed it to a different file format
as well, that's a little bit
more performant for the web.
And probably this is the one
where we can do the, and for
a second, I'm just gonna console.log this.
Do console.log(image), and
at first, we should see the URL.
And we'll go ahead, yeah, and you can
see that it's a proxy URL at this point,
right?
When we do the build process,
that's when it's gonna actually spit
it out into all the different versions.
This is, quote unquote,
the URL for our image.
And part of it is that if we wanna
use something like source set and
bring in multiple sizes, right,
this URL will respond with everything that
we kinda need for the different versions.
But this is effectively the URL we're
using, and then I'm pretty sure,
if I'm not mistaken,
I've never actually tried this before.
So we're gonna live take a look if this
works the way I think it's gonna work.
Yeah, and so it is the image that URL
being served by the Vite server, right?
But you can see it is the smaller one
based on our preferences at this point.
And then we can do,
Believe, I'm doing this from memory,
this is mostly me showing off.
So if it doesn't work, it'll be the second
time it didn't work, it'd be great.
So we'll go back, and yeah, so I did that,
one more query from as metadata, right?
And as you see, now instead of getting
just the URL, I'm actually getting a whole
bunch of data about the image that
I can use in my JavaScript code.
And then at build time,
it will have all of that information
as we go when we spit it out.
So for instance, at this point, I did set
the height to 400, we do have that source.
Now, if I wanted to use it in the tag,
instead of putting the image,
I have to say image.source cuz now this is
an object instead of just a string, but
I can get the width.
So if I was using Next,
image where I want some width and
a height to put the placeholder in there,
I now have access to this, right?
And I don't have to go measure it and
guess and then resize the image,
I have all of this basically for free.
And now, all those things of like, okay,
I do wanna make sure I'm using, and
I can have multiple formats and
do all those things, right?
We can actually take a look at the, yeah,
that's another example of all the metadata
in this case that we kinda saw.
And there's a whole bunch of other
directives, which are super cool, and
just kinda show you what you might
need to do depending on your use case.
For the most part,
getting into a smaller size and
then maybe turn it into
a different format that works.
I mean, you could literally,
I can import multiple times here,
so I could say,
we can turn this one into,
call this one webp.
We'll keep the metadata on for a second,
but then theoretically, if I also wanted
the URL of just the JPEG one, I can import
it again without changing the format.
And so if I wanted to have fallbacks that
we see a lot of times in the picture
element, right, I can actually generate
multiple versions of this image,
have URLs.
And then as we'll see, instead of calling
import webp, we'll call this one jpg,
right?
And this is one of those things
where I would probably do it once in
some kind of reusable code.
Either if I'm using React, I would
do it in a React component, Svelte,
I'll do it in a Svelte component,
where now I've got an image tag,
it'll automatically,
I'll give it the source,
it will then try to generate all the
different versions, so on and so forth.
So we can see jpg as well, and
then we should see both of those loaded,
but then the more interesting
part is when I go to build it.
That's not the right server, there we go.
We got it, I'm just gonna make
sure I'm in the right one,
let's run the build process real quick.
So we've got both of those in there,
let's do npm run build.
And now, you can see it spit out
both the jpeg and the webp, and
I'm getting basically any file format.
If I need multiple sizes for
multiple purposes,
I can even give it a stack,
I believe, I can do.
I believe I can throw this, and
will say, give me a 400 one, and
an 800 pixel one, and then you can see
that now it generated two of them.
And I can reference both of them,
and we can actually see,
server's definitely running, there it is.
Now, I've got the two webp
ones in this case, right?
So you could see that webp
before was a single one,
now it's an array of two images, right?
And so I've got the one that's got
the width of 300 and the height of 400,
the width of 600,
the height of 800, right?
They are the stack based on
the way that I ordered the params.
And so now if I need multiple
versions of the image, and
if you look closely at the directives,
there's the very practical stuff,
like, get a source set,
get different sizes.
But there's also a bunch of different
filters as well, so you can blur it.
And the blurring,
you can do things of generating one that's
a much lower quality as
the placeholder that loads faster.
The other one in that case, you could
theoretically go in base 64 encoded,
depending on what you're trying to do.
You have all these tools, and
really just putting the one plugin there,
Vite is able to then generate all of these
for you depending on what you wanna do.
The metadata will give you all the data,
but then if I take off the app metadata,
I will just get the URLs, and
I can just use them directly.
I might not need all that metadata, it
mostly show you can do stuff with it, but
there are also the various
different outputs.
So in this case, you can literally just
generate the source set in this way
as well, where you basically, you get all
of it for free and you can generate it.
And we really didn't have to do much, and
these are the things where it's a lot of
times, if it is a part of our core app,
for me, yeah, I will spend the time,
by hand, it's not that big a deal.
But there's some times when we're working
on the conference website, and there's
a deadline to get it out so that marketing
could get all these things happen.
Sometimes you can't do the perfect thing
unless you have tooling that does it for
you, right?
And a lot of this tooling takes the things
that we know we're supposed to do on
the web and the things that we know.
You can do stuff around font optimization
with different plugins, but a lot of this
becomes just part of your build process
and you kinda set everything up.
And with Vite, there's no lag in that
time it took to generate that page.
It was incredibly fast, right?
It was not a whole lot of extra work,
right?
The details of what you might wanna do
might take you a story in a sprint,
right, to get exactly what you need for
the given setup.
But as you can see, you can pull it in
different sizes, different formats, right?
Set up all the fallbacks, depending on
what you're trying to do in this case,
right, as the picture and
have those all in place.
And at build time,
it will optimize all the images for
you exactly the way that you need.
And again, I would most likely
put this in reusable code, right?
Some kinda component that kind of
generates exactly what you need, but
the heavy lifting is done incredibly easy.
And this is kinda like I said before, as
we move from Vite is easy, almost did it.
I call it myself,
that doesn't count, to its powerful,
which is now I'm getting a lot of these
best practices kind of just built in
without the overhead of having
to do it directly, right?
So that's super powerful.
And there's other really interesting
things that you can do as well,
which is, for instance.
imagetools is not the only query param
that we have available to us, right?
And there are some that are just built
into Vite without any plugins whatsoever.
A lot of them, honestly,
I use some of them, but
I use them for very specific use cases.
So for instance, I can,
for instance, import,
let's get that addBanner function again.
Let's say, I'm gonna do addBanner, and
you'll see what I'm about to do here.
From banner.js, and I am just gonna
give it and export default so
I don't get yelled at real quick,
as well of the same function.
And so when that happens,
you can see that, for
the most part, we got, yeah, that one.
Just doing the import as we
saw in the very beginning will
import the function itself.
So let's go ahead and
we'll console.log it.
And you're gonna see
a JavaScript function,
you're gonna see exactly what
you expect to see, really.
So we can go ahead, cool,
that is the function, but
that's the way that the console
represents functions in and of itself.
We could give it, The query from at raw,
and now, it is literally
the text of the file, right?
And so as this is a little
more of an esoteric one,
the way that I use this one is we're
building a new version of the homepage for
our site, where we have a bunch
of code samples, right?
I would prefer to have syntax highlighting
and all that stuff as I have the code
samples, but ultimately, I don't
wanna run that code in the browser.
What I wanna do is I want to show
it in a little code block, right?
And so I can import it with the raw
query param, get the raw text and
put it in there as well.
The other one that you can do is,
We have that import,
styles from, I think,
let's grab the banner one.
Banner, oop, nope, banner.module.css,
cool, we'll see that it's an object.
And there's something very similar, whoop,
./, that's why I had that up before.
There we go.
Cool, that's the object, but
I can also do, inLine and
actually get, again, effectively
the same thing with the raw CSS,
if I needed to use it for
some reason, right?
So if I wanted to populate the script tag,
automatically, I can actually get,
the query params basically
will import it differently.
And again, this does fall
into the Vite-specific stuff,
this is not part of the core web platform.
The other one that I can do is, for
anything, I can do and just get the actual
URL, in this case, of the CSS file
that I was trying to pull in, right?
And so there's various different ways
to do it depending on what you need,
to be clear.
You will know it if you need one of these,
right?
This one is a little bit more specific, I
use the raw one because of a very specific
purpose, but the more important part
is imagetools added a bunch of those.
So you can also, theoretically, if you
need two for various different purposes,
if there's not a plugin that exists
when we look into how to make plugins.
You'll see that, okay, well,
I need this file like this sometimes, or
maybe I need it parsed a different way,
especially if you're dealing with things
that maybe not necessarily just JavaScript
but some other file, where it's like,
someone asked before in the chat
about SVG sprites, right?
Or maybe you wanna have the SVG turned
into a PNG, I don't know if you can do
that one in imagetools off the top
of my head, but you probably can.
But for various different places,
if there's not a plugin,
well, this is one how the plugins work.
But if there's not a plugin,
we'll look at how one could begin to
do some of this themselves as well,
but there's a lot of power in the fact
that we can get the raw JSON.
Or the raw JavaScript, or the inline CSS,
or something along that line, and
we have that flexibility.
Again, without a lot of deep configuration
and playing around with things,
everything's kind of
a little bit on easy mode.
>> Are these imagetools only for
static images, or
can you pass dynamic sources to them?
>> So interestingly, out of the box, Vite,
actually it's a good segue to when we get
to, going back to those import statements,
the import promises, Vite has a lot of
rules that they have to be just strings.
And I'll kinda show you real quick,
actually, yeah,
I'll show you, I think I have some code.
So the entire course website
itself is also built on Vite and
use some of this as well.
So I'll show you where I have it,
I don't have that browser open,
so we'll go, So for
the website, it's built on top of Vite
because that makes sense, and I've got all
of these markdown files that eventually
get rendered as the page, right?
Basically, this is a Svelte app,
that part's not particularly important for
our use case at this point.
But if I go into routes and for the given
page, Nope, not that one.
Might actually be there.
For the content,
I can import just this piece, but for
the glob imports and stuff like that,
it doesn't let you get away with a lot.
So in a lot of cases, I have to put it all
together, so you can be somewhat dynamic,
but there's actually a plugin
that I reference later.
There's a plugin, I think it's called
vite-dynamic-import, I have a link
to it in the slide somewhere that I use in
one of the apps that we have, let's see.
Yeah, I'll show it to you down here.
In all things,
you can actually truly interpolate.
There are rules around how much you're
allowed to get away with without a plugin.
It'll let you do a little bit of
interpolation, especially with glob import
and stuff like that,
I haven't talked about glob imports yet.
It wants very strict lines, but
this dynamic import plugin will allow
you to kind of then be able to
compose stuff a little bit easier.
But yeah, without a given plugin to add an
extra level of support, you are somewhat
stuck with just raw strings, but
you can play around with it a little bit,
and this plugin will give you a little
bit more flexibility as well.